README.md, before:

# OpenMethane

Scripts for running the adjoint of the CMAQ model for methane emissions estimation

## Getting Started

To get started, you will need to make sure that [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/) 
and [docker](https://www.docker.com/) is installed if you intend to run this project using containers. 
Docker engine version v23 or later is required as this project uses docker `buildkit` features.

OpenMethane can be installed from source into a virtual environment with:

```bash
make virtual-environment
```

NOTE: The CMAQ-adj model and the benchmark data are not included in the GitHub repository. 
You will need to obtain these from another source.

### Docker

The docker container containing CMAQ, the adjoint model and the python dependencies can be built locally.
This is the recommended way to run the code.
The required CMAQ docker image is built via the [openmethane/docker-cmaq](https://github.com/openmethane/docker-cmaq)
repository and the hosted as a private image at ghcr.io/openmethane/cmaq.
Since the image is not public,
you will need to authenticate with the GitHub Container Registry (ghcr.io) before building the image.

This can be done using a GitHub personal access token (PAT) with the `read:packages` scope.
Instructions on how to do this can be found [here](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-container-registry#authenticating-with-a-personal-access-token-classic).


Once you have logged into the GitHub Container Registry, you can build the docker image with:

```shell
	make build
```

## Configuration

The configuration is defined in `fourdvar.params` and the modules within that package.
The configuration is defined at import time.
A bulk of parameters are static, but some are dynamic and can be set via environment variables.

Some sensitive environment parameters are required to be set in a `.env` file.
These environment variables aren't checked into the repository for security reasons.
A useful starting point for this `.env` file is the `.env.example` file.

See `docs/parameters.md` for the full list of parameters that can be configured via environment variables.

### Targets

`fourdvar` can be run in different target environments.
These environments typically require different configuration,
particularly regarding the paths to the data and the CMAQ adjunct.

The target environment is defined by the `TARGET` environment variable (default=`nci`).
The value of `TARGET` is used to load a `.env.${TARGET}` file.
This `.env` file contains the target specific configuration values.

A `docker-test` target has been provided which uses locally tracked versions
of the required input data from the `openmethane-prior` and `setup-wrf` repositories.
This target is useful for testing and development.

## First Run

To run your first test case you will need to:

1: Run the following scripts (in listed order):
 - `scripts/cmaq_preprocess/make_emis_template.py`
	Create the emission template file from the prior estimate
 - `scripts/cmaq_preprocess/make_template.py`
	Creates template files needed to for py4dvar to generate input files,
	Assumes that all the input files defined in cmaq_config (MET, emis, icon, etc) already exist
 - `scripts/cmaq_preprocess/make_prior.py`
	creates the prior estimate of the fluxes (and initial conditions if input_defn.inc_icon is True)
	includes modifiable parameters at the start of the file with descriptions.

2: fetch the TropOMI data:
 - `scripts/sat_data/fetch.py -c scripts/sat_data/config.{grid}.json -s {start_date} -e {end_date} {output_dir}`
	Downloads the TropOMI data for the specified date range and region.
	Requires a EarthData login. See the script for more details about how to set this up.
 
3: go to `scripts/obs_preprocess` and run one of:
 - `scripts/obs_preprocess/tropomi_methane_preprocess.py --source data/tropomi/*`
	process the downloaded TropOMI data into a format that can be used by `fourdvar`.

4: go to `tests/integration/fourdvar` and run:
 - `test_cost_verbose.py`
	runs the cost function logic with a random perturbation in the prior.
 - `test_grad_verbose.py`
	runs the gradient function logic with a random perturbation in the prior.

5: run the main code via `runscript.py`

## Running locally

For local testing and development, we recommend that the docker container is used.

The docker container assumes that the [openmethane-prior](https://github.com/openmethane/openmethane-prior) 
and [setup-wrf](https://github.com/openmethane/setup-wrf) repositories have been cloned locally 
(as `../openmethane-prior` and `../setup-wrf` respectively).
There are artifacts from these repos that are required to be run before running the adjoint model.

The docker container can be built and run with:

```shell
	make start
```

This will drop you into a shell in the docker container.
From here you can run the scripts in the order above,
or use the following script to run the scripts in the correct order:

```shell
	bash scripts/run-all.sh
```

### PyCharm

Pycharm provides some support for using a 
[remote interpreter](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/using-docker-as-a-remote-interpreter.html) 
in a docker container.
This feature is only available for PyCharm Professional.

The volumes may need to be adjusted to match the local paths for the openmethane-prior and setup-wrf repositories
as described above.
This will create a new docker container when running the scripts or tests.

This can be a bit flakey in PyCharm. 
Similar functionality can be achieved with VSCode in a likely more stable manner.

Commit message:

feat: Add a run cmap preprocessing script

README.md, after:

# OpenMethane

Scripts for running the adjoint of the CMAQ model for methane emissions estimation

## Getting Started

To get started, you will need to make sure that [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/) 
and [docker](https://www.docker.com/) is installed if you intend to run this project using containers. 
Docker engine version v23 or later is required as this project uses docker `buildkit` features.

OpenMethane can be installed from source into a virtual environment with:

```bash
make virtual-environment
```

NOTE: The CMAQ-adj model and the benchmark data are not included in the GitHub repository. 
You will need to obtain these from another source.

### Docker

The docker container containing CMAQ, the adjoint model and the python dependencies can be built locally.
This is the recommended way to run the code.
The required CMAQ docker image is built via the [openmethane/docker-cmaq](https://github.com/openmethane/docker-cmaq)
repository and the hosted as a private image at ghcr.io/openmethane/cmaq.
Since the image is not public,
you will need to authenticate with the GitHub Container Registry (ghcr.io) before building the image.

This can be done using a GitHub personal access token (PAT) with the `read:packages` scope.
Instructions on how to do this can be found [here](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-container-registry#authenticating-with-a-personal-access-token-classic).


Once you have logged into the GitHub Container Registry, you can build the docker image with:

```shell
	make build
```

## Configuration

The configuration is defined in `fourdvar.params` and the modules within that package.
The configuration is defined at import time.
A bulk of parameters are static, but some are dynamic and can be set via environment variables.

Some sensitive environment parameters are required to be set in a `.env` file.
These environment variables aren't checked into the repository for security reasons.
A useful starting point for this `.env` file is the `.env.example` file.

See `docs/parameters.md` for the full list of parameters that can be configured via environment variables.

### Targets

`fourdvar` can be run in different target environments.
These environments typically require different configuration,
particularly regarding the paths to the data and the CMAQ adjunct.

The target environment is defined by the `TARGET` environment variable (default=`nci`).
The value of `TARGET` is used to load a `.env.${TARGET}` file.
This `.env` file contains the target specific configuration values.

A `docker-test` target has been provided which uses locally tracked versions
of the required input data from the `openmethane-prior` and `setup-wrf` repositories.
This target is useful for testing and development.

## First Run

To run your first test case you will need to:

1: Run the cmaq preprocessing script (`scripts/cmaq_preprocess/run-cmaq-preprocess.sh`) to generate the
	necessary input files for the adjoint model. This script will run the following scripts in order:
 - `scripts/cmaq_preprocess/download_cams_input.py`
	Downloads the CAMS data for the specified date range and region
 - `scripts/cmaq_preprocess/setup_for_cmaq.py`
	Runs MCIP, ICON and BCON to generate the input date files for the CMAQ adjoint
 - `scripts/cmaq_preprocess/make_emis_template.py`
	Create the emission template file from the prior estimate
 - `scripts/cmaq_preprocess/make_template.py`
	Creates template files needed to for py4dvar to generate input files,
	Assumes that all the input files defined in cmaq_config (MET, emis, icon, etc) already exist
 - `scripts/cmaq_preprocess/make_prior.py`
	creates the prior estimate of the fluxes (and initial conditions if input_defn.inc_icon is True)
	includes modifiable parameters at the start of the file with descriptions.

2: fetch the TropOMI data:
 - `scripts/sat_data/fetch.py -c scripts/sat_data/config.{grid}.json -s {start_date} -e {end_date} {output_dir}`
	Downloads the TropOMI data for the specified date range and region.
	Requires a EarthData login. See the script for more details about how to set this up.
 
3: go to `scripts/obs_preprocess` and run one of:
 - `scripts/obs_preprocess/tropomi_methane_preprocess.py --source data/tropomi/*`
	process the downloaded TropOMI data into a format that can be used by `fourdvar`.

4: go to `tests/integration/fourdvar` and run:
 - `test_cost_verbose.py`
	runs the cost function logic with a random perturbation in the prior.
 - `test_grad_verbose.py`
	runs the gradient function logic with a random perturbation in the prior.

5: run the main code via `runscript.py`

## Running locally

For local testing and development, we recommend that the docker container is used.

The docker container assumes that the [openmethane-prior](https://github.com/openmethane/openmethane-prior) 
and [setup-wrf](https://github.com/openmethane/setup-wrf) repositories have been cloned locally 
(as `../openmethane-prior` and `../setup-wrf` respectively).
There are artifacts from these repos that are required to be run before running the adjoint model.

The docker container can be built and run with:

```shell
	make start
```

This will drop you into a shell in the docker container.
From here you can run the scripts in the order above,
or use the following script to run the scripts in the correct order:

```shell
	bash scripts/run-all.sh
```

### PyCharm

Pycharm provides some support for using a 
[remote interpreter](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/using-docker-as-a-remote-interpreter.html) 
in a docker container.
This feature is only available for PyCharm Professional.

The volumes may need to be adjusted to match the local paths for the openmethane-prior and setup-wrf repositories
as described above.
This will create a new docker container when running the scripts or tests.

This can be a bit flakey in PyCharm. 
Similar functionality can be achieved with VSCode in a likely more stable manner.
