# cmaq_preprocess

The CMAQ preprocessing steps are responsible for generating the input files required to run the CMAQ adjoint.
This includes:
* Generating the meterology, initial and boundary conditions for CMAQ

This step is run after the meteorological data has been generated by the WRF model 
(see [setup-wrf](https://github.com/openmethane/setup-wrf)).
Some example WRF data for the `aust-test` domain is available in the `tests/test-data/wrf` directory.

## download_cams_input

## setup_for_cmaq

The `scripts/cmaq_preprocess/setup_for_cmaq.py` script generates the required configuration and data to run CMAQ for a given domain and time.

Before running this script, the WRF model must be run to generate the meteorological data and the CAMS data must be downloaded
(`scripts/cmaq_preprocess/download_cams_input.py`) for the period of interest.
[CAMS](https://www.copernicus.eu/en/access-data/copernicus-services-catalogue/cams-global-reanalysis-eac4) 
is a global atmospheric reanalysis data set that can be used to provide boundary conditions for CMAQ.

The `setup_for_cmaq.py` script does the following:
* Checks if the required input files are available (WRF output files from the above section)
* Run MCIP to extract the meteorological data from the WRF output files and interpolate onto the CMAQ grid
* Prepares the initial and boundary conditions for CMAQ (using ICON and BCON respectively)
* Interpolate CAMS data to the CMAQ grid
* Generate the run script for CMAQ for each job # TODO: remove this step

Depending on the configuration of the script, 
multiple CMAQ jobs may be generated.

After the `setup_for_cmaq.py` script has been run successfully,
there should be results in the `data/mcip` and `data/cmaq` directory.
The `data/cmaq/runCMAQ.sh` script in the runs output directory can be used to run CMAQ for all jobs sequentially.


## make_emis_template
## make_template
## make_prior
