docs/parameters.md, before:

# Parameters

The following environment variables are configurable:

| Variable           | Type | Description                                                    | Default                                    |
|--------------------|------|----------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| DOMAIN_NAME        | str  | Defines the target domain                                      | aust10km                                   |
| DOMAIN_VERSION     | str  | Version of the target domain                                   | v1                                         |
| DOMAIN_MCIP_SUFFIX | str  | Suffix for the generated MCIP files                            | ${DOMAIN_NAME}_${DOMAIN_VERSION}           |
| START_DATE         | date | Start date of the run                                          | 2022-07-01                                 |
| END_DATE           | date | End date of the run                                            | 2022-07-30                                 |
| STORE_PATH         | str  | Full path to the branch-specific data.                         | N/A                                        |          
| EXPERIMENT         | str  | Name of the experiment being run                               | 202207_test                                |
| TEMPLATE_DIR       | str  | Path to the CMAQ template directory                            | {SOURCE_PATH}/templates                    |
| CMAQ_SOURCE_DIR    | str  | Path to the root of the CMAQ source directory                  | N/A                                        |
| MCIP_SOURCE_DIR    | str  | Path to the root MCIP source directory                         | N/A                                        |
| MET_DIR            | path | Output directory for the MCIP data                             | N/A                                        |
| CTM_DIR            | path | Output directory for the CMAQ template files                   | N/A                                        |
| WRF_DIR            | path | Output directory for the WRF outputs (from setup-wrf)          | N/A                                        |
| GEO_DIR            | path | Directory containing the `geo_em.d??.nc` file (from setup-wrf) | N/A                                        |
| PRIOR_FILE         | path | Path to the concentration prior file                           | N/A                                        |
| CAMS_FILE          | path | Path to the CAMS CH4 emissions file                            | N/A                                        |
| ICON_FILE          | path | Path to ICON template file                                     | N/A                                        |
| BCON_FILE          | path | Path to BCON template file                                     | N/A                                        |
| EMIS_FILE          | path | Path to emissions files                                        | {CMAQ_BASE}/emissions/emis.<YYYY-MM-DD>.nc |
| FORCE_FILE         | path | Path to the template forcing file                              | {CMAQ_BASE}/force/ADJ_FORCE.<YYYYMMDD>.nc  |
| ADJOINT_FWD        | path | Path to forward adjoint executable                             | N/A                                        |
| ADJOINT_BWD        | path | Path to backward adjoint executable                            | N/A                                        |
| NUM_PROC_COLS      | int  | Number of processors to use for the columns                    | 1                                          |
| NUM_PROC_ROW       | int  | Number of processors to use for the rows                       | 1                                          |


For values with a default of N/A an exception will be raised if
the environment variable is not defined.

`{CMAQ_BASE}` represents the directory that contains the CMAQ output (`$STORE_PATH/run-cmaq`).


## EarthData Login

The `scripts/obs_preprocess/fetch_tropomi.py` script requires an EarthData login to download the TropOMI data
with permission to access the GES DISC data archive.
A tutorial for creating an account and accepting the licence agreements is available
[here](https://disc.gsfc.nasa.gov/earthdata-login).

Once you have a login, 
the `EARTHDATA_USERNAME` and `EARTHDATA_PASSWORD` environment variables can added to the `.env` file.
These will be used by the `fetch_tropomi.py` script to authenticate with the GES DISC data archive.

## CAMS Login
Used to fetch CAMS data during the cmaq_preprocess step.
 
This requires a CAMS account, which can be created [here](https://ads.atmosphere.copernicus.eu/#!/home).

Commit message:

chore: Add OBS_FILE_GLOB

docs/parameters.md, after:

# Parameters

The following environment variables are configurable:

| Variable            | Type  | Description                                                         | Default                                    |
|---------------------|-------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| DOMAIN_NAME         | str   | Defines the target domain                                           | aust10km                                   |
| DOMAIN_VERSION      | str   | Version of the target domain                                        | v1                                         |
| DOMAIN_MCIP_SUFFIX  | str   | Suffix for the generated MCIP files                                 | ${DOMAIN_NAME}_${DOMAIN_VERSION}           |
| START_DATE          | date  | Start date of the run                                               | 2022-07-01                                 |
| END_DATE            | date  | End date of the run                                                 | 2022-07-30                                 |
| STORE_PATH          | str   | Full path to the branch-specific data.                              | N/A                                        |          
| EXPERIMENT          | str   | Name of the experiment being run                                    | 202207_test                                |
| TEMPLATE_DIR        | str   | Path to the CMAQ template directory                                 | {SOURCE_PATH}/templates                    |
| CMAQ_SOURCE_DIR     | str   | Path to the root of the CMAQ source directory                       | N/A                                        |
| MCIP_SOURCE_DIR     | str   | Path to the root MCIP source directory                              | N/A                                        |
| MET_DIR             | path  | Output directory for the MCIP data                                  | N/A                                        |
| CTM_DIR             | path  | Output directory for the CMAQ template files                        | N/A                                        |
| WRF_DIR             | path  | Output directory for the WRF outputs (from setup-wrf)               | N/A                                        |
| GEO_DIR             | path  | Directory containing the `geo_em.d??.nc` file (from setup-wrf)      | N/A                                        |
| OBS_FILE_GLOB       | str   | Glob string to match the observation files relative to {STORE_PATH} | "input/test_obs.pic.gz"                    |
| PRIOR_FILE          | path  | Path to the concentration prior file                                | N/A                                        |
| CAMS_FILE           | path  | Path to the CAMS CH4 emissions file                                 | N/A                                        |
| ICON_FILE           | path  | Path to ICON template file                                          | N/A                                        |
| BCON_FILE           | path  | Path to BCON template file                                          | N/A                                        |
| EMIS_FILE           | path  | Path to emissions files                                             | {CMAQ_BASE}/emissions/emis.<YYYY-MM-DD>.nc |
| FORCE_FILE          | path  | Path to the template forcing file                                   | {CMAQ_BASE}/force/ADJ_FORCE.<YYYYMMDD>.nc  |
| ADJOINT_FWD         | path  | Path to forward adjoint executable                                  | N/A                                        |
| ADJOINT_BWD         | path  | Path to backward adjoint executable                                 | N/A                                        |
| NUM_PROC_COLS       | int   | Number of processors to use for the columns                         | 1                                          |
| NUM_PROC_ROW        | int   | Number of processors to use for the rows                            | 1                                          |


For values with a default of N/A an exception will be raised if
the environment variable is not defined.

`{CMAQ_BASE}` represents the directory that contains the CMAQ output (`$STORE_PATH/run-cmaq`).


## EarthData Login

The `scripts/obs_preprocess/fetch_tropomi.py` script requires an EarthData login to download the TropOMI data
with permission to access the GES DISC data archive.
A tutorial for creating an account and accepting the licence agreements is available
[here](https://disc.gsfc.nasa.gov/earthdata-login).

Once you have a login, 
the `EARTHDATA_USERNAME` and `EARTHDATA_PASSWORD` environment variables can added to the `.env` file.
These will be used by the `fetch_tropomi.py` script to authenticate with the GES DISC data archive.

## CAMS Login
Used to fetch CAMS data during the cmaq_preprocess step.
 
This requires a CAMS account, which can be created [here](https://ads.atmosphere.copernicus.eu/#!/home).
